# Armeno-Turkish corpus construction

The aim of this workflow is to discover works in the HathiTrust Digital Library that are written in historic languages with nonstandard language and script combinations. 

Finding such works through the HathiTrust search functionality present challenges, such as OCR errors, misrepresentation of volume and binding information, mislabeling due to cataloging practices that don’t consider the language as distinct from the script, and possibly more. To address these challenges, we have designed an open experimental workflow to discover such corpora in the HathiTrust library by training and applying a machine learning model to assist in discovering texts of languages whose histories are laden with mislabeling and miscategorization through the test case of Armeno-Turkish: vernacular Turkish written in the Armenian script.  

The above-mentioned challenges make it practically impossible to collate an Armeno-Turkish dataset by using the HathiTrust search interface. To overcome this challenge, we first created a dataset by casting a wide net to gather items that could potentially fall into our target category of Turkish written in Armenian script. To create this large dataset, we used filtering techniques based on initial exploratory research on the MARC record labeling practices, such as including semantic information regarding circumstances of publication, and orthographic signals from the MARC record practices that could suggest the use of Armeno-Turkish (see filter_marc.py). Then, we trained character-based n-gram language models using a dataset of 100+ human-labelled works in the target category of Armeno-Turkish and negative examples for non-Armeno-Turkish works. These models distinguish our target documents with an f-score of ~0.93 on the labeled dataset. 

